auto3dseg/docs/run_with_minimal_input.md, before:

## Run with Minimal Input

To get initial impressions of **Auto3DSeg**, user can try this [two-minute example](../notebooks/auto3dseg_hello_world.ipynb). The example covers the entire pipeline from start to finish, and can be done in two minutes using a single GPU (GPU RAM >= 8GB).

Here are detailed steps to quickly launch **Auto3DSeg** for general medical image segmentation.

**Step 0.** Download public data or prepare internal data in a custom data root. For data from [Medical Segmentation Decathlon](http://medicaldecathlon.com/) (MSD), user can use the following Python script to download it.

```python
import os
from monai.apps import download_and_extract

root = "./"
msd_task = "Task05_Prostate"
resource = "https://msd-for-monai.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/" + msd_task + ".tar"
compressed_file = os.path.join(root, msd_task + ".tar")
if os.path.exists(root):
    download_and_extract(resource, compressed_file, root)
```

**Step 1.** Provide the following data list (a ".json" file) for a new task and the data root. The typical data list is shown as follows.

```
{
    "training": [
        {
            "fold": 0,
            "image": "image_001.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_001.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 0,
            "image": "image_002.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_002.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 1,
            "image": "image_003.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_001.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 2,
            "image": "image_004.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_002.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 3,
            "image": "image_005.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_003.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 4,
            "image": "image_006.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_004.nii.gz"
        }
    ],
    "testing": [
        {
            "image": "image_010.nii.gz"
        }
    ]
}
```

**Step 2.** Prepare "task.yaml" with necessary information as follows.

```
modality: CT
datalist: "./task.json"
dataroot: "/workspace/data/task"
```

**Step 3.** Run the follow bash command to start the pipeline without any further intervetion.

```bash
python -m monai.apps.auto3dseg AutoRunner run --input='./task.yaml'
```

## Input

A typical example of an input folder structure with all necessary components is as follows. Components can be located anywhere in the machine as long as the paths in **task.yaml** are correct.

```
./Task/
├─ Data/
├─ task.json
└─ task.yaml
```

## Output

When the pipeline finishes, all output files will be saved in the directory "./workdir" by default. And the output folder structure is shown as follows.

```
./Task/
├── Data/
├── task.json
├── task.yaml
└── workdir/
    ├── datastats.yaml
    ├── algorithm_templates
    │   ├── dints
    │   ├── segresnet
    │   ├── segresnet2d
    │   ├── swinunetr
    ├── dints_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
	...
    ├── segresnet_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
	...
    ├── segresnet2d_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
	...
    ├── swinunetr_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
    ...
    └── ensemble_output
```

Several important components are generated along the way.

1."datastats.yaml" is a summary of the dataset from the [data analyzer](../docs/data_analyzer.md). The summary report includes information such as data size, spacing, intensity distribution, etc., for a better understanding of the dataset. An example "datastats.yaml" is shown as follows.

```
...
stats_summary:
  image_foreground_stats:
    intensity: {max: 1326.0, mean: 353.68545989990236, median: 339.03333333333336,
      min: 0.0, percentile_00_5: 94.70366643269857, percentile_10_0: 210.9, percentile_90_0: 518.3333333333334,
      percentile_99_5: 734.7439453125, stdev: 122.72876790364583}
  image_stats:
    channels:
      max: 2
      mean: 2.0
      median: 2.0
      min: 2
      percentile: [2, 2, 2, 2]
      percentile_00_5: 2
      percentile_10_0: 2
      percentile_90_0: 2
      percentile_99_5: 2
      stdev: 0.0
    intensity: {max: 2965.0, mean: 307.1866872151693, median: 239.9, min: 0.0, percentile_00_5: 1.5333333333333334,
      percentile_10_0: 54.53333333333333, percentile_90_0: 649.3333333333334, percentile_99_5: 1044.0333333333333,
      stdev: 238.39599100748697}
    shape:
      max: [384, 384, 24]
      mean: [317.8666666666667, 317.8666666666667, 18.8]
...
```

2."algorithm_templates" are the [algorithm templates](../docs/algorithm_generation.md#algorithm-templates) that used to generate actual algorithm bundle folders with information from data statistics.

3."dints_x", "segresnet_x", "segresnet2d_x", "swinunetr_x" are automically generated 5-fold MONAI bundle based on [established networks and well-tuned training recipes](../docs/algorithm_generation.md#algorithms). They are self-contained folder, which can be used for model training, inference, validation via executing commands in the README document of each bundle folder. More information can be referred via this [link](https://docs.monai.io/en/latest/mb_specification.html). And "model_foldx" is where checkpoints after training are saved together with training history and tensorboard event files.

Note: if user would like to run model training paralelly with more computing resource, user can stop the pipeline after bundle folders are generated and executed model training via commands in the README document of each bundle folder.

4."predictions_testing" are the predictions for the test data (with "test" key in the data list) from model ensemble. By default, We select the best model/algorithm from each fold for ensemble.

Commit message:

1090-enhance-tutorials (#1100)
Signed-off-by: binliu <binliu@nvidia.com>

Fixes #1090  .

### Description
Fix some basic problems occured during test.

### Checks
- [x] Reconstruction tutorial:
    - [x] some typo and grammar problems in the readme file. 
    - [x] `fastmri_ssim.py` absents in `varnet_demo` folder.
- [x] the checkpoint device directly map to 'cpu' in
[unet_demo/inference.ipynb](https://github.com/binliunls/tutorials/blob/1014-mlflow-handler-tutorial/reconstruction/MRI_reconstruction/unet_demo/inference.ipynb).
   

- [x] Detection tutorial:
     - [x] some typo, link and grammar problems in the readme file. 
  
- [x] CAI tutorial:
- [x] add explanation for opencv codec error in the `video_seg`
tutorial.
- [x] use `EnsureChannelFirst` instead of `AsChannelFirst` in
`endoscopic inbody classification tutorial`.
- [x] accuracy in endoscopic inbody classfication tutorial should be a
number instead of tensor.
   
- [x] Pathology tutorial:
    - [x] some useless cell output in nuclick tutorial.
 
- [x] Add license to above tutorials
- [x] Check license in other tutorials

Signed-off-by: binliu <binliu@nvidia.com>
Signed-off-by: Bin Liu (SW-GPU) <binliu@nvidia.com>
Signed-off-by: Mingxin Zheng <18563433+mingxin-zheng@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: mingxin-zheng <18563433+mingxin-zheng@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Mingxin Zheng <mingxinz@nvidia.com>
Co-authored-by: mingxin-zheng <mingxin-zheng@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Mingxin Zheng <18563433+mingxin-zheng@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Mingxin Zheng <mingxinz@nvidia.com>

auto3dseg/docs/run_with_minimal_input.md, after:

## Run with Minimal Input

To get initial impressions of **Auto3DSeg**, users can try this [two-minute example](../notebooks/auto3dseg_hello_world.ipynb). The example covers the entire pipeline from start to finish and can be done in two minutes using a single GPU (GPU RAM >= 8GB).

Here are detailed steps to quickly launch **Auto3DSeg** for general medical image segmentation.

**Step 0.** Download public data or prepare internal data in a custom data root. For data from [Medical Segmentation Decathlon](http://medicaldecathlon.com/) (MSD), users can use the following Python script to download it.

```python
import os
from monai.apps import download_and_extract

root = "./"
msd_task = "Task05_Prostate"
resource = "https://msd-for-monai.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/" + msd_task + ".tar"
compressed_file = os.path.join(root, msd_task + ".tar")
if os.path.exists(root):
    download_and_extract(resource, compressed_file, root)
```

**Step 1.** Provide the following data list (a ".json" file) for a new task and the data root. The typical data list is shown as follows.

```
{
    "training": [
        {
            "fold": 0,
            "image": "image_001.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_001.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 0,
            "image": "image_002.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_002.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 1,
            "image": "image_003.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_001.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 2,
            "image": "image_004.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_002.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 3,
            "image": "image_005.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_003.nii.gz"
        },
        {
            "fold": 4,
            "image": "image_006.nii.gz",
            "label": "label_004.nii.gz"
        }
    ],
    "testing": [
        {
            "image": "image_010.nii.gz"
        }
    ]
}
```

**Step 2.** Prepare "task.yaml" with the necessary information as follows.

```
modality: CT
datalist: "./task.json"
dataroot: "/workspace/data/task"
```

**Step 3.** Run the following bash command to start the pipeline without any further intervention.

```bash
python -m monai.apps.auto3dseg AutoRunner run --input='./task.yaml'
```

## Input

A typical example of an input folder structure with all necessary components is as follows. Components can be located anywhere in the machine as long as the paths in **task.yaml** are correct.

```
./Task/
├─ Data/
├─ task.json
└─ task.yaml
```

## Output

When the pipeline finishes, all output files will be saved in the directory "./workdir" by default. And the output folder structure is shown as follows.

```
./Task/
├── Data/
├── task.json
├── task.yaml
└── workdir/
    ├── datastats.yaml
    ├── algorithm_templates
    │   ├── dints
    │   ├── segresnet
    │   ├── segresnet2d
    │   ├── swinunetr
    ├── dints_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
	...
    ├── segresnet_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
	...
    ├── segresnet2d_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
	...
    ├── swinunetr_0
    │   ├── configs
    │   ├── model_fold0
    │   └── scripts
    ...
    └── ensemble_output
```

Several important components are generated along the way.

1. "datastats.yaml" is a summary of the dataset from the [data analyzer](../docs/data_analyzer.md). The summary report includes information such as data size, spacing, intensity distribution, etc., for a better understanding of the dataset. An example "datastats.yaml" is shown as follows.

```
...
stats_summary:
  image_foreground_stats:
    intensity: {max: 1326.0, mean: 353.68545989990236, median: 339.03333333333336,
      min: 0.0, percentile_00_5: 94.70366643269857, percentile_10_0: 210.9, percentile_90_0: 518.3333333333334,
      percentile_99_5: 734.7439453125, stdev: 122.72876790364583}
  image_stats:
    channels:
      max: 2
      mean: 2.0
      median: 2.0
      min: 2
      percentile: [2, 2, 2, 2]
      percentile_00_5: 2
      percentile_10_0: 2
      percentile_90_0: 2
      percentile_99_5: 2
      stdev: 0.0
    intensity: {max: 2965.0, mean: 307.1866872151693, median: 239.9, min: 0.0, percentile_00_5: 1.5333333333333334,
      percentile_10_0: 54.53333333333333, percentile_90_0: 649.3333333333334, percentile_99_5: 1044.0333333333333,
      stdev: 238.39599100748697}
    shape:
      max: [384, 384, 24]
      mean: [317.8666666666667, 317.8666666666667, 18.8]
...
```

2."algorithm_templates" are the [algorithm templates](../docs/algorithm_generation.md#algorithm-templates) used to generate actual algorithm bundle folders with information from data statistics.

3."dints_x", "segresnet_x", "segresnet2d_x", and "swinunetr_x" are automatically generated 5-fold MONAI bundle based on [established networks and well-tuned training recipes](../docs/algorithm_generation.md#algorithms). They are self-contained folders, which can be used for model training, inference, and validation via executing commands in the README document of each bundle folder. More information can be referred to via this [link](https://docs.monai.io/en/latest/mb_specification.html)](https://docs.monai.io/en/latest/mb_specification.html). And "model_foldx" is where checkpoints after training are saved together with training history and tensorboard event files.

Note: if users would like to run model training parallel with more computing resources, they can stop the pipeline after bundle folders are generated and executed model training via commands in the README document of each bundle folder.

4."predictions_testing" are the predictions for the test data (with the "testing" key in the data list) from the model ensemble. By default, We select the best model/algorithm from each fold for the ensemble.
